okay well let's introduce me zi who's
the director of golf uh studies Center
at the katar University he joins us here
in Doha very warm welcome to you so um
how encouraged should we be about what
we've heard from the US Secretary of
State alak katari foreign
minister I think when it comes to the
war on Gaza uh there is some hope um
when it comes to the response of Hamas
um what's um and and here let me just uh
make it clear that this is um this is
the second mediation effort where the
focus is on a frame on road map on how
things should be done this is not the
agreement so we have to differentiate
between a mediation leads to um uh just
a normal one like November but this one
is different this one is about the basis
for a serious exit strategy for what's
happening in Gaza so that's the reason
it took times from I think from all
parties to first of all to put this
suggestion onto um in reality in Paris
and now to get the response from Hamas
and other resistant groups so that's an
important step I think this is this does
give hope uh that you know there is a
move towards a sort of um stop this
operation in in Gaza but let's let's be
clear on that and admit that the conf
the whole War has reached to the fatigue
stage where basically Israelis first of
all they got everything they can imagine
which basically destroying Gaza without
achieving anything and they are now just
now repeating actually this kind of
Destruction on the other side the
Palestinian themselves they have not
reached this point because basically
their uh aim has been achieved in 7th of
October so the Israeli is now in the
fatig stage and they have to work hard
to move out from that status quo because
this cost them a lot politically and
economically and
militarily as we heard there Anthony
blinkin of course has raised the
prospect of normalizing relationships
between Israel and uh Saudi Arabia how
much of this continues to be an
attractive carrot for Israel going
forward given all the domestic tensions
uh in the country particularly within
the cabinet
there
this kind of discourse is a is a
something pleases Biden Administration
and that is something a reward given to
Netanyahu so you I mean as an expert in
the region no one is ready to listen to
this at the moment without stopping the
war on Gaza so blinkin is his sixth
visit to the region this is the second
time he is talking about uh
normalization uh and because he feels
that that is a reward could be given to
Netanyahu to give some concessions when
it comes to the war on Gaza and and that
could be another achievement to know to
Biden Administration when it comes to
Middle East foreign policy that he has
actually done another agreement uh
between Israelis and and and Saudi
Arabia so this is the context of
normalization has to deal with fixing
the failure of Biden foreign policy in
the Middle East and giving a a reward to
to Netanyahu otherwise other parties in
the region they have one interest so far
is to end the war in Gaza and have exit
clear exit strategy to what's happened
in Gaza and West Bank so to a certain
extent it mustn't be all about simply
incentify this incentivizing this and
offering a reward to Israel to get them
to agree to a framework in that respect
does the United States need to pull some
more severe levers uh when it comes to
encouraging forcing even uh Israel to
move forward on
this they they have a lot on hand uh
they have the discussion now um as your
correspondent talk about the Congress
talk about Military Support economic
support they have a lot on hand the
Americans if they if they have if they
want to do it they can do a lot actually
uh and that is that is that is that's
something to be asked to by the
administration why they are not um doing
enough to stop this war on Gaza and and
why
why Netanyahu is actually pushing them
to the direction which is not of the
interest of the United States any anyone
the first year student in political
science and IR will say everything
happen now is not in the interest of the
United States because it it brings
hatred to the United States from the
region and across the globe and I don't
know how they can see the things uh uh
otherwise Ma always good to hear your
analysis many thanks for joining us my
pleasure my pleasure